# Alien: Resurrection
## 3 April 2012 6:20 AM

Before anyone gave a shit about him, much less revered him as a geek saint, Joss Whedon wrote the script for "Alien: Resurrection". It's not a particularly good movie. In fact, it's really, really bad (though not quite as bad James Cameron's rendition of the franchise, "Aliens"), but it's also, improbably, a cheeky deconstruction of ontology. Well, not exactly, but there are smatterings.

Poor Signourney Weaver's unfortunate legacy, Ripley, lays unconscious on an operating table, pale as a vampire. In white coats that absurdly button at the shoulder, the doctors lean in to look intently at a smallish, bloody incision in the middle of her chest. "2 centimeters," one of them reports. Finally, someone is campily drawing out the connections that Freudian film theorists found irresistibly inarticulate in the previous "Alien" films, and is tapping them for comedy. When the doctors carefully extract the toothy, monstrous infant from the incision, their eyes fill with wonder and affection.

It's in the twee hands of Jean Jeunet, who saturates all the colors and renders everything even sillier. Still, everyone trades in human bodies. The scrappy pirates (a prefiguration of the Firefly crew) have salvaged cryogenically-frozen bodies from some derelict ship, and the Evil Corporation (or whatever) buys them to impregnate them with vicious, slimy aliens.

These very Jeunet scientists have cloned Ripley from some cells recovered from the last movie in which she kills herself because she has an alien gestating inside her. Somehow, cloning her brings the alien along with her. The process has not done wonders to keep the two entities separate, so that even once they have removed the baby alien from her chest, she remains some sort of hybrid. As you might expect, this means she's somewhat of a superhero, more or less like Spider Man with acid blood. Weaver chooses to portray her hybridity in the hammiest way: by moving like a predatory animal. She tilts her head inquisitively, stares intently, and sniffs. Like the rest of the movie, she's ridiculous. Everybody says they don't trust her, because, you know, what is she?

Once the "oh no, we're stuck in a big spaceship with a bunch of homicidal aliens" part of the movie begins, Ripley wanders into a room marked "7" (she is marked "8"). Inside she's faced with a multitude of other possibilities of herself preserved in green fluid, all of them grotesque. There's a giant baby-looking-thing, a human with the head of an alien, a human with a tail and the claws of an alien, etc etc etc. What really disturbs her, though, is the one that's still alive, squirming around on an operating table, its not-entirely-human limbs at very wrong angles, moaning for Ripley to kill Ripley. She does, with a flamethrower, and destroys all the preserved clones gone wrong, too. She finds abjection writ large in these enormous test tubes, and she stamps it out. Violently denying the messiness of being, she claims her identity and posits herself as the true Ripley. Afterwards, the brute of the team says "What's the big deal? Fucking waste of ammo. Must be a chick thing," which is a sitcom line missing a laugh track.

Which brings us to Winona Ryder, who plays an android who has hidden its identity, called Call. (When Ripley learns that she's an android, she calls her "it".) It becomes apparent that Call is "synthetic" (so goes the lingo in this universe) because of a wound. The evil general who has put together this whole alien research operation shoots her. She tries to hide it, but Ripley sniffs it out, feels the hole dripping white goop (in the "Alien" movies, androids spew what appears to be white paint everywhere when they're injured). Call tells Ripley not to touch it, hating the reminder of what she is. Which is a surprisingly nice way of putting why the bloody insides of own bodies make us queasy. Ripley doesn't mind, and lovingly stuffs the wires and whatever back into the hole as best she can. In the same scene of bonding in imminence, Ripley asks Call to "jack in" to the ship's computer network, another odious reminder of the nature of Call's body. "It makes me feel all liquid inside," she complains. "Get over it," says Ripley.

This kind of overdrawn sci-fi metaphor normally irritates me with the heat of loathing for my adolescent self, but the B-movie tone of farce makes it bearable. These are themes played with (although not very coherently) rather than hammered into the viewer as if they're revelations. It's a comedy for college film students, and although I'm a couple years out, I'm still tickled.