# Au Contraire
## 6 December 2012 6:24 AM

[Sneha writes][1]:

> We have our thumbs to thank for, er, our computers. In return we've given them hardly anything to do on the QWERTY keyboard, but that's another matter for a more facetious discussion.

And reminds me of something I've been thinking about, or actually repeating myself about, rather like the key in question. It's not really a key, though, is it? It's called a "bar." You may call this mere semantics, but there is at the least a mechanical difference between it and the rest of the keys. I'll begin there, sneaking up with the most timid kind of evidence, the kind that doesn't make me sound like an airhead, because my head's down there in the real stuff of tiny metal hinges and little finicky plastic bits.

A couple months ago my harem of aging laptops had finally all become really, truly unusable--one no longer transmitted video signal to its own screen or to an external monitor, another mysteriously stopped booting, and the last shut down at random (that special Apple ailment), and I had to get a new one. (As if I weren't excited about it.) The three dead laptops begat three more, aka I bought three laptops in quick succession, sending them back one by one--except the last of course. Anyway, the point is that the first one had a faulty spacebar, which was the most aggravating key to be broken--it's the one most used. I really did not want to send the laptop back, though, so I opened up the key to see if it could be fixed. I discovered that the spacebar, unlike every other key, is actually two key mechanisms under one key. The problem with mine was that one of the two mechanisms was broken, which made it pretty much impossible. It had to be pressed (or in the idiom of spacebars, hit) at just the right place to register a press (or more properly, a stroke--excuse me, I have to take a moment). One does not want to have to think to hit the spacebar. It's supposed to be the easiest key to hit, specifically designed to present a wide area whose entirety, even the very edges, is interactable. It's like an eject button. Wait, I'm getting ahead of myself.

Getting back to Sneha's assertion, I find it thoroughly opposable. Hardly anything to do? They seperate words! The strange digits that allow us to grasp have been functionally separated from the rest of the fingers on the QWERTY keyboard. Like the thumb that hits it, the spacebar is opposed with letters to make words possible.

There is therefore a vague logic in the spacebar being the traditional pause button for computer video players. What I've been thinking about, or at least doing a lot, is hitting pause. It's a different thing, watching movies and television by myself on a laptop. I react in ways I wouldn't with company or in a theater. I don't mean I react more genuinely; one is still company. In private I use the spacebar constantly. Television especially is full of awkward moments, and unlike life, I can stop them. In an odd way, how often I pause it, un-fullscreen it, and switch frantically from tab to tab until I realize that I actually want to keep watching anyway, only to pause it again ten seconds later, represents how involved I am in the show. Of course, embarassment for the characters is not the only reason to pause a show. There is also sheer excitement (a difficult emotion to bear, really), sudden, uncomfortable parallels to my life, and just phrases and words that happen to trigger a memory. In other words, all the internal pitfalls that are always possible, but usually there is no spacebar. Of course, even without the possibility of pausing, the unbearable moments break up experience, create a before and an after. One does one thing or thinks one way or feels one way before, another after, and then, sooner or later, the same thing again, a bit differently. Shit.

   [1]: http://bitedribble.wordpress.com/2012/10/27/in-which-we-plumb-the-depths-of-ayudha-pooja/
