# Bananas and Caramel
## 26 March 2012 9:12 AM

“Bananas are good,” David Tennant says in that loud cheer of his, and I can’t get it out of my head. There is something unfortunately infectious about the tenth doctor. It’s the confidence. I could say I watched Doctor Who for the amusingly transparent metaphoric premises, or because of the irreverence, maybe even for that glowing metal phallus he keeps at all times on his person, but those would all be ego-saving lies. If I am honest, I watched it for the same optimistic outlook that caused me to vomit each episode, but also, despite myself, to swagger a little. It’s not precisely that the the hero wins in the end, but the belief that the hero will win in the end. The solution to all problems in “Doctor Who” is intelligence, yes, but really it’s faith–the kind of faith in self-help books or self-actualizing seminars. Like Katy Perry, the doctor tries to pass on his affective strategy to virtually every human he encounters. Just believe that you are awesome (he assures that you are almost as awesome as him, his insistent praise becoming even more patronizingly voluble if you’re a woman), and the universe will open its doors to you. If you’re one of his chosen, that is–if he loves you. And he’s a slut. Being beneficent is such a knee-jerk for him that he bumbles around beknighting inanimate objects, too. Bananas are good.



It’s true, though, and food, like the self, has to be mythologized for me to want to try it. Recently this happened to bananas for me in an odd way, and not because of Tennant’s ridiculous voice. My sudden fascination with bananas began because [Kerala banana fritters][1] were described to me as a textural marvel: soft and hot on the outside, and a little harder and cooler inside. I cringed a little at this, yet I was curious. Usually when dealing with things deep fried, it’s crispy exteriors and soft interiors that are valued. The pleasure of biting into something and feeling it gush. These fritters would instead be, at least in theory, the pleasure of hitting a semipermeable wall. Maybe it would be welcome, as it mirrors the combative conversational aesthetic I dishonestly claim to cherish. In any case, I was intrigued.

I was (and am) also lazy. When I mustered the motivation to do something with the slightly green bananas I bought, the only specificity that remained was the desire for bananas. I didn’t feel like bothering with batter, or with a recipe. So I just did what I apparently do with all fruit: I fried them in butter and sugar. This time, though, taking a cue from [Martha Stewart’s banana cake][2], I also used bourbon. Bananas, butter, and bourbon–their alliteration surely points to destiny. If not, well, then just go back in time and make that the case. Such would be the dictates of the doctor’s intergalactic arrogance.

This improvised preparation did not yield the texture that fascinated me, in part because the bananas had become ripe by the time I had gotten around to them. Just the same old, same old: slightly crispy exterior and soft, gooey interior. The appeal of the flavor of bananas, however, was made undeniable by these hot, greasy globs. I ate the whole pan in an hour. The bananas did not fight back. There was no solidity to be found, but they offered something else to keep me going–a scent.



The scent is powerful enough that I will soon try to perfect this recipe for the fourth time. The problem is the caramel. It’s pointless. I insist upon it because friend bananas are somehow not exciting enough, but every time it turns nearly to hard candy. On top of the melted butter that the bananas haven’t soaked up I drop half a cup of sugar. As soon as it melts, it’s as brown as a white body-builder. I pour the stuff immediately onto the limp pile of fried bananas, looking like the corpses of pregnant slugs. The plate’s unctuous mess of textures is unwelcoming. Just as I begin to savor the banana, a chunk of caramel latches onto my teeth and won’t let go. I have to chew it, clamping together and unsticking my jaws with difficulty. I want the caramel in the same way that I want to eat a whole bag of potato chips–it disgusts me but I keep stuffing more of it in my mouth. I’m trying very hard to use it to scratch the itch that it has given me.

When finally I have created my masterpiece, with a caramel sauce instead of a coating of sugary land-mines, I hope I will move to the subtler territory of fritters.

   [1]: http://www.cookingandme.com/2010/06/ethakka-appam-pazham-pori-banana.html
   [2]: http://www.marthastewart.com/316229/banana-bourbon-layer-cake
