# Dune
## 19 February 2012 12:00 PM

Let me tell you about something remarkable. Yes, that’s right, a movie so impressed me that I’m dying to tell you about it. I’m positively giddy. How couldn’t I be? It’s the worst movie ever, and I’ve watched it somewhere in the realm of a dozen times (but I’ve lost count). For me it’s one of those adolescent artifacts that nobody ever told you was going to stubbornly stick with you like pencil lead under the skin, or that tiny red spot under my right [left?] eye. Actually, they’re like neither of those things, because the culture you haplessly consume in teenagerdom is infectious, ever aspiring to bring everyone else down to its level. For this reason I never stop quoting The Simpsons, or--ugh--Monty Python and the Holy Grail.
Of course, not every thing you gobble up back then will come back tasting of disease. For instance, The Far Side has been indelibly seared into my memory. I remember one strip quite clearly, in which two crocodiles are laying, distended bellies up, on a beach. In a smashed-up boat, the empty clothing and effects of two humans are at their feet. One crocodile says to the other: “wow, that was incrdible--pink, soft all the way through, no bones, or nothin’.” Which is a perfect description of the movie in question, “Dune”.
It really is somewhat an achievement, a movie this long without the slightest hint of tension or, really, even a coherent plot. It is pure atmosphere--hazy, ridiculous, David Lynchian atmosphere.
I’ve heard that the Frank Herbert book on which this Homerically-long film is ostensibly based is full of intricately-plotted intrigue. Way back when, I read that book, but honestly I don’t remember a whit of it. The trouble was probably either that I was too in on Herbert’s version of zen, or that I, like David Lynch, was reading only for atmosphere. Maybe he too read it ensconced in a canyon crevice in Utah, soaking up Desertness and the most stiltedly philosophical navel-gazers you’ve ever met. Of course I was--they were just as bad as me. Okay, I take it back, I guess I remember something. In any case, all the film can remember of the complex politics (if there ever were any) is one line: “I see plans within plans.”
Personally, all I see is the fascinatingly vaginal monster mouth that utters this--a drooping, undulating thing that in all other parts of the film spews orange light at planets. Apparently, this is the effect of, as the voice-over informs us at the beginning, being mutated over a period of 4,000 years. I’d believe that radiation victims have to take shits this bad, but do they fold space? The trouble is, I can recall all the surreal imagery whose inexplicable, banal haunting is the hallmark of decent sci-fi, and I can recall the hyperbolic dialogue (wait ‘til we get to Sting), none of it adds up to anything.
“Hey!” you, the 16-year-old version of me, rebuts, “there’s a story!” Sure. I’ll recount it: Ambitious boy wants to impress father. They go on an adventure to this crazy-dry place (researching it on his 102nd-century iPad, the boy recites with some concentration “Arrakis. Dune. Desert planet,” and we wonder how a script of such efficiency managed to fit so little in over two hours), where they make mega bank off of, err, “spice” (sound familiar?). Father dies. Father’s fat, gross, evil, homo nemesis attacks. Precocious boy finds way of impressing dead father by going Lawrence of Arabia on Father’s nemesis’ fat ass. Unlike Lawrence, boy is not crazy, and really is the messiah. Montages of training his native army and blowing shit up. Patrick Stewart, in probably the most embarrassing moment of his career (although he’s had no shortage of them), says, almost incomprehensibly “you young pup! You young pup!” to boy. At least I think that’s what he says. Anyway, together boy, Patrick Stewart, and army of white Taoist Arabs storm the evil palace by shouting at it (and the palace offers about as much resistance). And how can this be? For he is the quizatch-hadderach! (Which is what? The most apparent--and aggravating--explanation is that “there is a place terrifying to us--to women--that we dare not go.” Thank god our hero can!)
There is no contingency in this series of events. Never are we led to believe that something else could happen. Engagement with the film is entirely unnecessary, because it doesn’t make the story any more interesting. Which is an odd coincidence, because intense engagement appears to be the protagonist’s only attitude toward the world. It’s this universe’s whole schtick, really: the discipline of the mind. That’s why we’re always hearing everyone’s thoughts in voice-over, in imitation of the book’s endless italics. These are not, however, the thoughts of people engaged with any aspect of the world. They sound profoundly stupid. Often they just narrate what’s going on in the film, because someone rightly guessed it’s too incoherent otherwise. At one point the boy and his mother are tied up in the back of an evil black hovercraft. His mother is gagged, because, playing out the misogynistic fears of men everywhere, their captors are afraid her “witch’s” voice will trick them. She’s a witch! Burn her! (I told you The Holy Grail could not be purged.) So, little god that he is, the boy decides to trick them with _his_ voice. “He’s trying the voice!” we hear her think. Whoa now. Let’s not get too hasty.
When the character’s heard thoughts aren’t stating the obvious, it’s to be super-suspicious. Meeting someone new, the future messiah thinks “he’s hiding something.” After a scene during which he stares at this someone intently, he moves on to thinking “he's hiding many things.” It’s as if the film is full of Watsons, all aspiring to be Sherlocks, all falling short. However, rather than this condition of amateurism leaving them with an erotic longing for the real thing, they are all satisfied with their dead-end observations. Maybe this is what happened to Twitter when humanity purged all computers from the universe. Of course, snark seems to have gone with it, leaving us ingenuousness the likes of which God has never seen (and an interrogative that I suspect is directed through the fourth wall: “I have NO FEELINGS!! Why?”)
Maybe this awarenessless awareness is what this movie has infected me with. I parrot its absurd, hyperbolic lines with as much mindfulness a meme. Lynch (and those other people involved in the movie whom fans decry, as if waiting beyond this movie is his masterpiece) have unintentionally created a movie for postmodern intellectuals to masturbate about: It dispenses with narrative entirely, leaving oddly memorable bits of dialogue to float without context and work their insidious way into the audience. Speaking of which, oh, fuck it, here you go:
“They tried and failed?” “No, they tried and died!”
“I will kill you!”
“I will bend like a reed in the wind.”
“Not in the mood? Mood is a thing for cattle, and loveplay, not fighting!”
“I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer.”
“BREAK!!”
“I, Baron Vladimir Harkonnan, will encompass their doom!”
“Tell me of your homeworld, usul.”
“Stop your speaking!”
“Give me spice!”
“I want you to squeeze and SQUEEZE!”


* * *

We hear about “The Laandstradt,” “IX,” “the juice of sapho,” and an endless litany of bewildering terms that potentially have something to do with the plot. But they’re just decoration.