# Haywire
## 25 January 2012 10:19 AM


People talk about "desensitization". During the first half of "Haywire", I re-experienced it all again. Not so much because the movie manipulates you for a minute into thinking it's not an action movie, but because the violence is, well, violent. It's the directorial style that kills. Action has been revitalized by evacuating the musical score, and with the coreographing of accidence. Breathlessly you hear the sounds of struggle. Fights look and sound painful and awkward. It's all premeditated to be shockingly live. Soon you realize that what is shocking is also funny, and the movie becomes a deadpan slapstick. But it took me some time to get in on the joke. I was just a little horrified, uncertain of what I had gotten myself into. Did I really want to hear bones breaking?

When I came in the movie had already started, but when I met Mallory (Gina Carano), she was sitting in a diner with lank black hair looking emo in the Girl With the Dragon Tattoo way. The scene plays on an unspoken assumption that the man who sits down across from her has in some way to do with a love plot. It seems to have gone wrong, and the man is only a messenger for another man. "He just wants you to come back and meet him," he says. "Do you know what he did?" she asks, with enough anger that it seems safe to assume terrible things. "You're not getting in the car, are you?" he says, and gets up. Then he punches her. Someone behind me says "in front of all those people?" as everyone in the diner stares in shock at them. As the fight escalates, they fling each other's bodies through various fragile objects throughout the diner, and she brutalizes him within and inch of his life, it becomes apparant that this is not the story of a victim.

At some point I gave into the oddly gleeful panache of these action sequences. The pleasure of watching her hijinks reaches a pinnacle when, running from the police, she mounts a stairwell with an umbrella in one hand, and with the other calmly grabs any and every object and throwing it down the stairwell for her persuers.

I could appload some of the ways this movie created a female action hero, but really, that would be to ignore the hero. (Which you could speculate is what her father would do were she not an action hero.) Its lightly Scottish villain, Ewan McGregor, puts it succinctly through slimy teeth: "oh no, I wouldn't think of her as a woman. That would be a mistake." Personally, after the debacle of 'The Iron Lady' and its insistence upon hysteria, I'm happy to simply enjoy the wit and pluck of her martial prowess.

Then again, the movie won't allow us to ungender her. The camera caresses her. When--whatever, I can't remember the character's names--McGregor comes to her with the job of playing Michael Fassbender's date, she's pissed at what the camera does. "You want me to be eye-candy?!"

McGregor pleads that it's just this once. She concedes. As if the film crew's microphone is a bug, when Fassbender meets her he says "my better half. Lovely to see you," and they kiss briefly, in a perfectly reserved way. This is the stuff of spies, the paranoia running so deep that apparently he's convinced everyone is watching them right then and there. But there's no filmic hint of anyone--no camera angles from across the street, no rushed shots of strangers eyeing them from behind newspapers. So we are made to wonder at the levels of acting, what each is getting out of this, and whom is playing whom. It is, in short, a romance, without the romance. Much like another movie Steven Soderbergh directed, "Out of Sight". But there is not a hint of sweetness here as in that movie, and this short romance ends in betrayl. Which is expected. While he's in the shower she sets up his phone to be GPS-tracked by hers.

When he tries to kill her, she kills him by shooting him in the head. The choreography, grappling its way through their hotel room, seems calculated to suggest sexual struggle. They fight their way onto the bed, and she traps his head between her thighs, strangling him.

There is a lot of strangling in this movie. The fights are wonderfully awkward, won not by spectacular moves, but pure tenacity. She slams her adversaries against walls while they grab hold of her. She chokes them from behind. She throws things at them. She hits them repeatedly in the vital organs.

Just when you think she's really slick, she fucks up just a little. Scrambling her way around Dublin rooftops, she's slips and falls on her back. She limps on toward victory, of course. In another mishap, successfully having backed her way out of reach of, as she calls them, LEOs, she runs smack into a deer. "There's a deer in the car," the innocent civillian whose car she's, err, borrowed, says. There's always a deer in the car, so to speak, or about to be. It's how this world works.  But things never go truely haywire. Sure, the villain of sleazy villains (Antonio Banderas) is shocked enough by his fate to utter "oh shit" (she shows up on his balcony) before the credits roll, but she gets him. Bad luck switches sides.