# Sustenance of Another Sort
## 1 March 2012 10:50 PM

We show our literacy of assumptions with “and” and “but”. Does the next statement follow from the previous? If not, we are compelled to connect the two with "but", not "and". The best "but" I've ever seen is on [the Wikpedia page][1] for Sara Paretsky, the author of the V.I. Warshawski mysteries. It's practically mooning us:

"[Warshawski] drinks Johnnie Walker Black Label, breaks into offices looking for clues, and can hold her own in a street fight. But she also pays attention to her clothes, sings opera along with the radio, and enjoys her sex life." I read this, laughed, and knew I had to read these books. Apparently, you have to be one kind of woman or the other, and Warshawski is both.

The first time in the series she has sex, this is how it is described: "My last memory was of his breath expelling loudly, and then I was asleep." Like everything is in her narration, sex is just there. She describes everything unblinkingly, without troubling herself with it. It is for this cold honesty I read. Her voice is a soothing narcotic, stripping the world of melodrama, sometimes sharpening to sarcasm. The sarcasm is the deflective aspect of her persona. Her voice is double-edged like this, too, in her interactions with those from whom she wants information--she fences, alternately thrusting and parrying her way to their throats.

While she is obsessed with rooting out the truth, she is the anti-House. Her blunt honesty and wit do not emanate from despair, there is no Man of Genius torment to romance here, and her jokes are not adolescent vies for attention. “House” the show is content with repeatedly calling its eponymous character “incapable of human connection” with the same zeal that children yell at the opposite sex that they have “cooties”. Paretsky does not hold her protagonist at such a confused and aroused distance. Warshawski is not written as if she's repressing some deep sentimentality; she's just not.

It is not surprising, then, that she talks about sex in a matter-of-fact way. But there is something just a bit off about this description of her rendezvous with Ralph. In the next novel, _Deadlock_, she reports of a new lover that "he made love as well as he had kissed," which is a great deal cheerier, a bit less removed, and not nearly as funny. Evenness, it seems, has yet to be reached in this first novel. Perhaps everything is bound to be a little much for a writer eager to use the novel as a foil to define this nascent character.

What Wikipedia might have said is that she enjoys her sex life but she does not build her sense of self out of romance. On her date with Ralph it's clear that he's emotionally invested and wants her, whereas she likes him, and thinks sex would be nice--“I’d like the comfort of someone in bed with me,” she considers. Her interest is in that, and (as ever) in a potential source of information, not in anything erotic in the Anne Carson sense.

When the two enter her apartment, the romantic poetics of oneness are out. They both get what they want, more or less, but she's using his desire for her while he's hoping for some deeper reciprocation from her. The funny thing is, he'll twist almost anything he gets from her into what he wants. Their dinner conversation is rife with polite discord (the least sexy kind of discord), which she internally ascribes to class difference and accepts, and he refuses to acknowledge. He fundamentally misunderstands her, but he still wants her. She is utterly knowing, realizing that “he had been planning this ending all along”, but not knowing in that sweet way with which romcom heroines delude themselves into bliss. She simply doesn't expect anything much.

What's troubling about the whole scene in her apartment is that she thinks one thing and does another--really not her M.O.. Sitting on the couch drinking with him she thinks "it had been a long time since I had anyone up to my apartment, and I suddenly felt shy and vulnerable. I'd been overexposed to men today and wasn't ready to do it again in bed." Reading this, I assumed that she was about to politely ask Ralph to leave. He might be confused, but she would not be guilted into sex, and that would be that.

She doesn’t, though, because she finds a way to control the situation. (She would be the last person to victimize herself. Giving in for someone else’s sake is a tendency that exasperates her in women.) Red-faced, he admits his soupy feelings for her in a series of cliches (“you’re not like any woman I ever met before,” which is undoubtedly true). This shift of vulnerability perks her right up. She takes him by the hand to bed.

How gravely Ralph misunderstands her becomes apparent in the morning. Recently divorced, he eagerly falls into domestic life with her. He fusses about making coffee, doing her dishes, kissing her breezily, and in a flurry of honeymoon whimsey suggests that they take the day off at some relaxing locale. For her this last falls under the category of things the suburban upper-middle-class do, and moreover she doesn’t care to. She has work to do. When she refuses, he wants to come with her. Apparently, he thinks now that they’ve had sex, never shall they be separated. She tells him she wants the day to herself, and he sulks. He thought he’d found salvation, a woman in whom to cathect his ex-wife, but her more earnest needs are met elsewhere.



~


I had been sent in Warshawski’s direction by the same friend who demanded I hop on the bandwagon of “The Killing”. She said that Warshawski takes further the lack of empathy that I liked so much in Sarah Lund. “Liked” is not the word. “The Killing” at this point held my psyche in [its grip][2] so tightly that I even watched half of the second season, despite its numerous shortcomings. I needed Lund--her limpheartedness for the living, her all-consuming need to pursue the case. Everything else was gross and irritating, just as everything outside the investigation is to Lund. I was in need of Warshawski, badly.

She is a different sort from Lund--far less troubled and therefore potentially brewing of more feminist trouble. Lund’s lack of heart is pathologized, and she is made to suffer for it. Whether it’s the world of the show or the show itself that censures her for being single-mindedly passionate about her work is unclear. It is clear that for Paretsky it is the world that would hold her protagonist back if it had the chance. To represent this world we have a verbal punching bag of a character, Bobby Mallory--a cop who shows up to try to browbeat Warshawski into being a housewife. He’s comic relief.

Paretsky’s prose has that smooth digestibility of not over-processing. Like the character, the writing does not torture itself, but has come to conclusions about the world and has accepted them. Warshawski is not a probing narrator in the academic way. This could easily become an awfully broad definition of genre versus literary fiction--the point is that Warshawski’s potency as a character lies not in how high-brow the writing is, but in how addictively compelling it is on the mystery genre’s terms.

Not unusually, she narrates in the past tense. Her ascetic description, while it is also the non-grappling of genre fiction, is what's left. It is a story not embellished but paired down to what's worth remembering. What remains of sex is this errant blip of sensory data. The tumult of fantasy forgotten, she almost cruelly records his exhalation. This is not what you recount to your lover to recreate the mood: I fell asleep when you orgasmed last night.

While her love life has a mild flavor of noncrisis--its demands and rewards are small--her work has a tendency to threaten her well-being to the same degree that it sustains her psychologically. If the first two books of the series are an indication, in every story there are at least two crises that jeopardize Warshawski’s life. In the middle of _Deadlock_, the freighter she’s on is blown up while it waits in a lock, and at the end she narrowly escapes the murderer murdering her on his yacht by setting it on fire and jumping overboard. In _Indemnity Only_ first it’s a mobster who gives her a black eye that in public everyone takes for a sign of domestic violence, then confronted in the end is (again) the culprit himself with friends and guns, whom she and her teenaged friend outwit.

In the face of disaster, her focus and disregard (not one without the other) are something to behold. The freighter broken in the now empty lock, her love interest on board and in shock (so is she), she trots up out of the lock past the crowd, gets a hamburger and fries (”I instinctually knew I needed the carbs”), and calls from a payphone on a hunch that she might know where the man is who detonated the explosives.

In _Indemnity Only_ she is placed bruised, battered, and exhausted in her car. She’s just been in a fight with two thugs, and then her face and vital organs were beaten by their boss as an intimidation tactic. Sure, first she goes home and takes a bath (her restorative), but an hour later? She goes on the aforementioned date with Ralph. Covering up her purple face with makeup, she rushes off, ostensibly because she’s late and wants to prove she wants to see him. I find myself wondering if she just can’t stand being deterred by the recent trauma, and if she wants not to lose him as a source. In fact, I’d prefer those explanations. My attachment to her character comes through in these moments of rigid interpretation: Conciliation is not her bag, I stubbornly think.

In neither story does she get much of any recompense for her travails. She doesn’t really ask for it. She may be a private investigator, but the profitable part of her job takes place outside the story. _Indemnity Only_ begins with her being hired to find someone’s daughter, but when this client fires her, she can’t help herself. She must get to the bottom of what he’s hiding. _Deadlock_ lacks even that pretense of employment: Her cousin dies, and she suspects it’s murder. Financially and in every other sense these cases take and take, but they’re all that give her back what’s crucial.

The abandon with which she detects is erotic. Her rationality comes together and apexes exactly where it falls apart, in the investigation. Towards its end she will strain, deceive, push, and violate others, and nearly annihilate herself. What is that if not love? I do not ask rhetorically.

   [1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sara_Paretsky
   [2]: http://postgradpancakes.blogspot.com/2012/01/appetite-of-sarah-lund.html
