# V.I. Warshawski
## 8 April 2012 10:05 AM

Nothing strengthens one's fervor for books more than film adaptations. The worse the adaptation, the better. Loving, faithful adaptations merely _sell_ books. Watching “V.I. Warshawski” turned me into a raving fanatic. Well, not immediately. You know how shock can be exhausting? First I had to go lay down for a while. Then I began foaming at the mouth.

Except at a very general level, I had no idea what was going on in this film. I stopped trying to understand at the first diversion from the source material. The plot is a series of overexcited facebook statuses from on vacation in the first two V.I. Warshawski novels, _Indemnity Only_ and _Deadlock_. The facts and characters are there, sort of--hacked up and glued back together with the care of an infant--but the murder mystery is indecipherable. The attitude toward the source material is precisely that of a tourist: what isn’t ignored is iced with romance extruded from a pastry bag known as the anus.

Take the murder victim, who in _Deadlock_ is Warshawski’s hockey-player cousin to whom she had been close. The facebook status reads: “I met this amazing hockey hunk! But he died! We were totally soul-mates. RIP.” Yes, in the book she’s investigating the murder of her cousin out of love (ostensibly--really it’s obsession), but the kind that she might actually take seriously, not the googley-eyed, i-met-him-in-a-bar-last-night variety.

She takes his case when he comes uninvited into her apartment with a relative’s daughter, asks her to take care of the kid for a while, and hires her to investigate something about the company he works for. Except he has no money at the moment. I find myself doubting that she would give a shit.

What is accomplished by actually meeting him before he’s murdered? We get to see how she snares a man? She does it in the least Warshawski way: She trips him and when her shoe falls off the two are led into painfully nonwitty Cindarella banter. That’s the kind of stunt she might pull to persue a case--maybe--but to get the attention of a man she’s attracted to? I imagine the screenwriter’s logic went something like this: Hey, this Warshawski, she’s sexy, right? Let’s make it a romantic comedy! Despite the fact that the books never even approach romantic comedy. There is romance, technically, and it can be comedic, but her flings are a part of the detective story, not the other away around.

The real narrative arc here, grafted on awkwardly, is her relationship with the newspaper reporter, Murray. First she rejects him (for waltzing into her apartment unannounced and without permission)--which clearly cannot stand, she has to have a man in her life. Then she gets drugged, turns sappy, and asks him to stay the night with her. Finally, in an explosion of not so much sap as syrup, she reconciles with him. Again, a tourist’s utter incomprehension is at work here. In the books Warshawski refers to her “relationship” with Murray. There’s a reason this word can cause nervousness. Here it’s been taken to mean serious, committed relationship whose problems must be resolved so that it may become real. Because clearly the ultimate goal in Warshawski’s life is to find a fulfilling relationship with a man. If there’s anyone with whom she has a serious, comitted relationship, it’s Lotty, the Austrian doctor who takes care of and shelters her when she’s in trouble. They love each other, and she _needs_ Lotty.

In other words, the script takes the perspective of a character who has never been anything more than comic relief, a foil for Warshawski to shine with snide remarks: Bobby Mallory. A friend of her father’s, he constantly heckles her to stop fooling around in dangerous detective work (“no place for a woman”) and to find a good man with whom to settle down. He’s a cliche, a punching bag, an antifeminist archaic for her to righteously drown with modernity. Which is fine by me. The point is he’s not someone to _take seriously_. That’s the most off-putting thing about seeing Bobby on screen in this film: It’s possible to listen to an entire sentence of his speech without ROFLing. Congratulations, director I’ve never heard of, you have declawed V.I. Warshawski.

So too her inconsistent attention to the cleanliness of her apartment. It has been exploded into a comedy of slovenliness. In the books she leaves her dishes unwashed for a couple days, and sometimes neglects cleaning her apartment when it needs it. Why? because she has better things to do, not because she’s a slob. And who cares if she is? But here the camera pans around her apartment, sniggering. The woman can’t even keep it clean! it says. Her refrigerator is full of half-rotten food, and the teenager she’s babysitting complains of the smell when she opens it. Seriously? Much as i would like to identify with Warshawski, I’m sorry, that’s _my_ fridge, not hers.

Kathleen Turner isn’t bad. I find myself enjoying her unending sass. But she is not Warshawski. She is a sitcom character. If she could be transplanted into, say, “Designing Women” as some sort of yankee intrusion, she’d be great. Likewise, the teenaged sidekick she takes on is delightful at times, spewing even cruder, more shameless vitriol ("you're growing enough penicillin in this fridge to treat a case of the clap!"). But the girl in _Indemnity Only_ whose role this character was written to replace is not a jaded sassbucket. She is smart (hence Warshawski likes her), but she’s sweet, and for the most part, innocent.

At the moment when she asks Murray to stay with her in bed, he’s taken on the role of the man she dates in _Indemnity Only_. Except the sentimental moment at the end of that story has him in a hospital bed saying he loves her, and her saying guiltily that she really _likes_ him. He says “you know it’s not the same thing,” and she gets teary-eyed at the truth of her ambivalence. Briefly. This romance with Murray, on the other hand, ends on a sweet note of mutually reciprocated affection. He’s on a stretcher, she holds his hand firmly, looks into his eyes, and melts.

How deeply this film misunderstands her character lies in its choice of poles: from sarcasm to sentimentality. The former is of course present in her character--it’s part of what makes her fun to read--but in moderation rather than the whole of her voice. The latter she has hardly any of at all. This treatment of her as a shell of caustic wit protecting a gooey core buys into the popular and peculiar notion that underneath every misanthrope (which she’s not really) is a sweetheart, and that we’re “all the same on the inside,” i.e. full of the beautiful feeling that the proponents of this notion wish they had because it would secure their identity as Real People. Here her narrating voice has been erased entirely. Yes, in the novels she does wisecrack, especially to Bobby, but she is hardly a walking wisecrack. She does not have [a mushy center, but a solid, cold one][1], which is part of what makes her a compelling narrator. She observes and reports calmly and clearly, with only a little nastiness. She is neither angsty nor cheery. This film has taken one aspect of her character--her sense of humor--and puffed it into the whole thing. Having done this, it is determined to pathologize and break down her unidimensionality. The tourist has taken a hundred snapshots of only the Eiffel Tower and has tweeted “Paris really needs something baroque--there’s nothing here but this bare steel tower.”

In a part of a charming montage of Warshawski training this teenaged girl of mysterious origins (honestly, I’m still not clear on whose daughter she is) who talks exactly like her, she teaches her how to manipulate men by acting dumb. Edified, the girl says “so, basically, to get what you want from a man you just treat him like a child.” Apparently “V.I. Warshawski”'s audience is men.

   [1]: http://postgradpancakes.blogspot.com/2012/03/bananas-and-caramel.html
